Provide a simple HTML page to compute proof size and time from parameters (#22)
cardano-scaling/alba: docs/src/simulation.md

# ALBA Parameters Simulation

ALBA provides strong security guarantees about the capability to generate a proof given some number of items \\(S_p\\):

> * a honest prover with more than \\(n_p\\) items has a probability of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* a honest prover with at least \\(n_p\\) items has a probability of
```

  failing to generate a proof lower than \\(2^{-128}\\),

> * symetrically, a (dishonest) prover with less than \\(n_f\\) items

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* symetrically, a (dishonest) prover with at most \\(n_f\\) items
```

  has probability of succeeding to generate a proof lower than
  \\(2^{-128}\\).

This page provides a simple and user-friendly way of estimating how
various ALBA parameters impact the size of the proof and probability
of having a proof, given a number of items \\(S_p\\) varying between
the two parameters' bounds. It is expected to be a quick way to
estimate what would be "good" values for those parameters in a
specific context, depending on security requirements and expected
adversarial share.

One can define:

* \\(n_p\\): The size of the _honest set_ of items.
* \\(n_f\\): The size of the _faulty set_ of items. \\(n_f\\) must be lower than \\(n_p\\).
* Item size: The size of a single item, this is used to compute the full size of a proof.

> * \\(S_p\\): The number of items actually available to an adversary, or put differently, how much adversarial stake should we expect.

Reviewer: > $S_p$: The number of items actually available to an adversary, or put differently, how much adversarial stake should we expect.

Hmm, depending on the context and parameters, the adversary might still be able to do weird things even if they created none of the $S_p$ many items; for example, in the context of Peras, citing from https://github.com/cardano-scaling/alba/discussions/17:

> Suppose that honest participants only attempt to create an ALBA proof when they have at least some minimum number of votes. Suppose that an adversary is eligible for sufficiently many votes such that the honest participants do not reach this threshold. Then the adversary might still be able to create a valid ALBA proof, causing confusion at the very least.

Phrased differently: An adversary might be able to create a certificate signalling a quorum despite the quorum having been missed, using only honest votes.

Reviewer 2: I will simplify the sentence, because what $S_p$ is in this context is just the number of items one has at their disposal to create a certificate and there's not really any notion of an adversary anymore.

From these parameters, we display a chart showing the probability of

> an adversary being able to compute a single valid proof, given some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an adversary being able to compute a valid proof, given some
```
The probability term bounds the probability that an adversary can create *at least one* valid proof.

number of items \\(S_p\\) available between \\(n_p\\) and
\\(n_f\\). The formula used, initially proposed in this [GitHub
discussion](https://github.com/cardano-scaling/alba/discussions/17)
is:

\\[

>  r \cdot {\left( \frac{|S_p|}{n_p} \right)}^u\cdot qd

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 r \cdot {\left( \frac{S_p}{n_p} \right)}^u\cdot qd
```
given your definition of $S_p$ as a number instead of a set above

\\]

where _u_, _r_, _q_, and _d_ are defined in the aforementioned
section of the paper. Note the vertical axis' scale is logarithmic.

We also display two specific values:

* the size of the proof for the given \\(n_p/n_f\\) ratio and individual
  item size, which is given by the formula from section 3.2.2,
  Corollary 3, from the [ALBA
  paper](https://iohk.io/en/research/library/papers/approximate-lower-bound-arguments/),

> * the probability of having a proof for some specific number of \\(S_p\\) (computed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* the probability of having a proof for some specific number of \\(S_p\\) computed.
```
